## 1. Recap

- Variable
- Data Types
- Input

## 2. Operators

Go through [this Exercise](https://hourofcode.com/toxicodepython) at your own pace in your groups. Make sure you are all doing this together and asking questions.

There is no rush -- **it is completely fine not to finish the whole exercise**!!

The purpose here is to start getting familiar with Python syntax through trial-and-error (so getting things wrong is **completely expected** and **part of this process**!). After this section, we will go through the activity as a group and discuss our observations of rules and concepts from Python that we took from the exercise.

When you get an answer wrong, make sure you look at the correct answer below and try to understand what the expression means from the correct answer.

Refresher of some math operators that you will see:

- `+`: addition
- `-`: subtraction
- `*`: multiplication
- `a < b`: less than --> "a is less than b"
- `a > b`: greater than --> "a is greater than b"

```python
#Numbers Operators
a = 21
b = 10
c = 0
c = a + b
print ("Line 1 - Value of c is ", c)
c = a - b
print ("Line 2 - Value of c is ", c )
c = a * b
print ("Line 3 - Value of c is ", c)
c = a / b
print ("Line 4 - Value of c is ", c )
c = a % b
print ("Line 5 - Value of c is ", c)
a = 2
b = 3
c = a**b
print ("Line 6 - Value of c is ", c)
a = 10
b = 5
c = a//b
print ("Line 7 - Value of c is ", c)
```
```python
#String Operators
a = 'hello'
b = 'class'
c = ''
c = a + b
print(c)
c = a * 5
print(c)
c = 10 * b
print(c)
```
#### 3. Boolean


  Booleans may only be one of two values: `True` or `False`. These are like on-off switches, where True is on and False is off. These states are mutually exclusive -- a condition can only be either `True` or `False` but not both. You can use the `not` keyword to "flip the switch" of the boolean value.


  ```python
  #Boolean
  x = True
  type(x)
  ```
  ```py
  val1 = True
  val2 = not True
  print(val2)
  # outputs: False
  ```

  - What does the `==` symbol mean? What about `!=`?

  `==` is "equals", `!=` is "does not equal".

  - `==`: equality operator: compares two values and returns True if they're equivalent or False if they are not
  - `!=`: inequality operator: opposite of equality, returns True if two values are not equivalent and False if they are

  - What is the difference between `=` and `==`?

  `=` is for assigning some value to a variable, while `==` is for testing for equality between the two sides.

  - `>`: greater than operator: returns True if the left side is greater than the right side and False if not
  - `<`: less than operator: returns True if the left side is less than the right side and False if not

### 4. Conditions


- What does the `if` keyword do?

  This is a conditional statement: `if CONDITION:` means: "if `CONDITION` evaluates to `True`, then execute the code that follows directly after the statement"

- How about an `if ... else` statement?

  ```python
  if CONDITION_A:
      STATEMENT_A
  else:
      STATEMENT_B
  ```

  In this example, "if `CONDITION_A` evaluates to `True`, then execute `STATEMENT_A`. Otherwise (if `CONDITION_A` evaluates to `False`), then execute `STATEMENT_B`. -->

- How about `if ... elif ... else`?

  ```python
  if CONDITION_A:
      STATEMENT_A
  elif CONDITION_B:
      STATEMENT_B
  else:
      STATEMENT_C
  ```

  In this example, "if `CONDITION_A` evaluates to `True`, then execute `STATEMENT_A` only. Otherwise (if `CONDITION_A` evaluates to `False`), then check if `CONDITION_B` evaluates to `True` and if so, execute `STATEMENT_B` only. If both `CONDITION_A` and `CONDITION_B` evaluate to `False`, then execute `STATEMENT_C`. Note that here, we are only ever execute one of the `STATEMENT_`'s, even if multiple conditions evaluate to `True`.

### Exercise 1

→ If-else statements are used to control the flow of your code.
```python
if condition:
  # do something
elif condition:
  # do something
else:
  # do something
```


```python
a = 100
b = 33
print('a is {0}'.format(a))
print('b is {0}'.format(b))

if b > a:
    print("b is greater than a")

else:
    print("b is not greater than a")
```

```python
a = 33
b = 33
print('a is {0}'.format(a))
print('b is {0}'.format(b))

if b > a:
    print("b is greater than a")
elif b < a:
    print("b is not greater than a")
else:
    print("b is equal to a")
```
### Exercise 2
```python
fruits= ["apple", "banana", "watermelon"]
vegatables = ["broccoli", "carots", "onions"]

if "apple" in fruits:
  print("apple is a fruit")
else:
  print("apple is not a fruit")
```

```python
c = int(input('Enter degrees (c):\n'))

if c < 0:
    print("It's cold, stay at home")
elif c < 20:
    print("Put a jacket on")
else:
    print("It's a good weather for a T-shirt")
```

### Exercise 3

```python
age = int(input('Enter your age:\n'))
hour = int(input('What is the hour? (0-24)\n'))

is_late = hour >= 22
is_too_young = age <= 12

if is_late:
    if is_too_young:
        print('You should be sleeping ...')
    else:
        print('Want to watch a movie?')
else:
    print('Go for a walk!')
```

## Extra resources and references from class

- [Python playground](https://trinket.io/python/f7ad7f9864)
- [Silent Teacher exercise from class](https://hourofcode.com/toxicodepython)
- [Python foundation docs](https://www.python.org/doc/essays/blurb/)
- [Python - Tyr it yourself](https://www.w3schools.com/python/)
- [List of some open source Python projects](https://data-flair.training/blogs/python-open-source-projects/)

## Hands-on Python Tasks

### Setup

**Work in groups** to solve the following tasks in your new Python Dev setup. As a group exercise, we expect you to discuss with your group members to **solve the problems together**. This may mean having one person share their screen and talking through the code you will write together, and making sure you all understand before moving on to the next task. If you do not get through the exercises in class, please keep trying to work through them as **homework**.

If you are already familiar with Python and would like an additional challenge, try to use `git` to commit and push your work. (That means, create a local and corresponding remote repository, add your Python file to the repo, commit your changes, and push these to the remote repo.)

There are a lot of tasks, but they are each fairly short. The goal here is to get more practice with data types and the syntax that we learned.


First, let's make sure we have a place to write our Python code. Please follow the setup for your dev environment.

#### Google Colab

Go to Google Colab on your browser. And Select open file on GitHub paste this link `update the link` then copy to drive and rename it with your name at the end. eg. `2.Python Concepts-Homework-Neslihan.ipynb`  For each task, we recommend creating a new cell (block within the Colab notebook) and writing your code there. Make sure to evaluate the code in the cell (click the play button, or hit the keys: Shift-Enter or Ctrl-Enter) to check the outputs.


#### Jupyter Lab
Go to your terminal and open `ReDI-Intro-to-Python` directory and make sure you activated your environment first, so type `conda activate intro-to-python` then to get all the updates type `git pull`. Go to folder `2.Python Concepts` and duplicate `Homework2.ipynb` file and rename it with your name at the end. eg. `Homework2.ipynb` Now you can write your answers for each in a cell which is under task description. 

#### VSCode

Create and save a new file (`File > New File`) -- you can call it something like `2.Python Concepts-Homework-yourname.py` or whatever else you would like, but make sure it has the `.py` file extension. Make sure your Python interpreter is configured properly (according to the installation instructions). Enter the following line into your file: `print('hello')`. Then, try to find the play button in the top right corner and press that, or else right click somewhere within the file and select `Run Python File in Terminal`. Make sure you can see the output 'hello' in the terminal at the bottom.

#### Backup Option

If your setup is not yet working properly, you can also use the IDLE terminal that comes with the Python installation or else the [Python playground](https://trinket.io/python/f7ad7f9864) from last class.

